Ariyaratne, H.B.; Dengsheng Zhang, "A Novel Automatic Hierachical Approach to Music Genre Classification," 
Multimedia and Expo Workshops (ICMEW), 2012 IEEE International Conference on , vol., no., pp.564,569, 9-13 July 2012

step-by-step (divide and 
conquer) hierarchical classification approach. In which the problem 
is divided into several smaller and simpler classification tasks.
Decision Tree (DT) is a machine learning algorithm which tries 
to solve a classification task by adopting a divide and conquer 
approach. 
Multivariate DTs with linear discriminative analysis (LDA)

The statistical properties of each feature’s mean, 
covariance, and their numerical partial derivatives (the differences 
between successive elements of the feature vector) constituted a 183 
dimensional feature vector. 

Feature Name No.of featu
1.  Total Energy  4 
2.  Fundamental Frequency  4 
3.  Loudness Sensation  32 
4.  Integral Loudness  4 
5.  Audio Spectral Centroid  4 
6.  Spectral Rolloff  4 
7.  Audio Spectrum Spread  4 
8.  Audio Spectrum Flatness  16 
9.  Audio auto correlation  13 
10. Log Attack Time  1 
11. Temporal Centroid  1 
12. Zero Crossing Rate  4 
13. Mel Frequency Cepstral Coefficients  96 
Total 183

Yaslan, Y.; Cataltepe, Z., "Audio Music Genre Classification Using Different Classifiers and Feature Selection Methods,"
Pattern Recognition, 2006. ICPR 2006. 18th International Conference on , vol.2, no., pp.573,576, 0-0 0


Feature set
• BEAT: Beat related, 6 features.
• STFT: Short-Time Fourier Transform, 9
features.
• MFCC: Mel-Frequency Cepstral
Coefficients, 10 features.
• MPITCH: Pitch related, 5 features.
• All: All features above, 30 features.

We experimented with 10 different classifiers,
namely: Fisher (Fisher classifier), LDC (Linear
classifier assuming normal densities with equal
covariance matrices), QDC (Quadratic classifier
assuming normal densities), UDC (Quadratic
classifier assuming normal uncorrelated densities),
NBC (Naïve Bayes Classifier), PDC (Parzen Density
Based Classifier), KNN(Knearest neighbor with
optimal k computed using leave one out cross
validation), KNN1 (1 nearest neighbor), KNN3 (3
nearest neighbor), KNN5 (5 nearest neighbor) [12].

In short, the classifier complexity plays an
important role in how many features result in the best
test classification accuracy. 

MFCC features are
selected by all classifiers,

he classification performance
of Parzendc, KNN(opt) and QDC increases to 80%
when using all 30 features after applying PCA
transform.


Jia-Min Ren; Jang, J.R., "Discovering Time-Constrained Sequential Patterns for Music Genre Classification," 
Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, IEEE Transactions on , vol.20, no.4, pp.1134,1144, May 2012
doi: 10.1109/TASL.2011.2172426

 time-constrained sequential patterns (TSPs) for music genre classification. 

representing each music piece as the weighted occurrence
frequencies of all the mined TSPs, linear SVM classifiers are
employed to facilitate the classification task. From the analysis of TSPs’ 
lengths and counts, we found that TSPs with different lengths/counts can be used to capture the characteristics
of specific genres. 

Therefore, we further derive a genre-specific
time gap based on the distribution of token durations of a specific genre for mining genre-specific TSPs. Next, we compute
the feature vector of a music piece as the occurrence frequency
of each mined TSP since these mined TSPs can be used to
represent genre-specific characteristics (Section III-C). Finally,
each feature vector is weighted by its TSP length and the TSP’s
probability within each genre, and then all the weighted vectors
are fed to linear SVMs for training classifiers 

II. ACOUSTIC UNITS BASED MUSIC TRANSCRIPTS
 Therefore, based on an unsupervised language identification approach [32], we train a vocabulary of acoustic units
to model universal sound events, such that a given music piece
can be tokenized into a sequence of acoustic units.

Arabi, A.F.; Guojun Lu, "Enhanced polyphonic music genre classification using high level features," 
Signal and Image Processing Applications (ICSIPA), 2009 IEEE International Conference on , vol., no., pp.101,106, 18-19 Nov. 2009

To  capture  the  chord  information  we  have  counted the 
number of roots and modes of the chords present in  songs. 
And  for  chord  progressions  we  had  developed  a  pattern 
matching  algorithm  called  ChordMiner  that  predicts  the 
likelihood  of  songs  belonging  to  different  genres.  This 
algorithm  captures  and  summarizes  the  chord  progression 
information to a format that  can  be  used in conjunction  of 
other features as an input to data mining algorithms

A. Rhythmic Features
Rhythmic features are related to music tempo (beat rate).
Chord Occurrence Features
hord Progression Features
A  chord  progression  is  a  sequence  of  chords  played  in  a 
row.  The  length  and  the  number  of  chord  progressions  in 
music  pieces  vary. 












